# cs222-project
### Project 1
In project 1, you will implement a very simple paged file (PF) manager. It builds up the basic file system required for continuing with projects 2,3 and 4. The PF component provides classes and methods for managing files and pages in files. In addition, you will implement the first few operations for a record-based file (RBF) manager (which you will continue working on in part 2 of the project) on top of your basic paged file system. 

### Project 2
In Project 2, you will continue implementing the record-based file manager (RBFM) that you started in project 1. In addition, you will implement a relation manager (RM) on top of the basic record-based file system.

### Project 3
In this project you will implement an Indexing (IX) component. The IX component provides classes and methods for managing persistent indexes over unordered data records stored in files. Each data file may have any number of (single-attribute) indexes associated with it. The indexes ultimately will be used to speed up processing of relational selections, joins, condition-based update, and delete operations. Like the data records themselves, the indexes are also stored in files. Hence, in implementing the IX component, you will use the file system, namely the PagedFileManager (PF) component that you implemented in Project 1, similar to the manner in which you used it for implementing the RecordBasedFileManager (RBF) in Projects 1-2. In the projects' overall database system architecture, you can think of the IX component and the RBF component as sitting side-by-side above the PF layer and below the RelationManager(RM) component. As you did for the RBF component, you should pass attribute information in to the methods of the IX component. The RM layer will later be orchestrating both the RBF (for data files) and IX (for indices) layers when tuple-level operations happen, and the RM layer will also be managing the catalog information related to indexes at this level. However, in this part of the project, you will implement the IX component without worrying (yet) about the RM layer, just as you did for the RBF layer earlier. The RM layer and its behavior will come into play in Project 4.

### Project 4
In this project, you will first extend the RelationManager (RM) component that you implemented for project 2 so that the RM layer can orchestrate both the RecordBasedFileManager (RBF) and IndexManager (IX) layers when tuple-level operations happen, and the RM layer will also be managing the catalog information related to indices at this level. After the RM layer extension, you will implement a QueryEngine (QE) component. The QE component provides classes and methods for answering SQL queries. For simplicity, you only need to implement several basic relational operators. All operators are iterator-based. To give you a jumpstart, we've implemented two wrapper operators on top of the RM layer that provide file and index scanning.
